Nassim Haramein was brimming with curiosity
and began asking some of the big questions
at the age of nine,
when he had his first experience of greater knowledge.
He passed into his young adult years
living in a van so he can afford to
study the world of physics and living systems full time.
He was ultimately labeled a brilliant rebel
in the world of physics.
In August of this year he entered
another phase of his life,
as he was acknowledged by his peers
to be one of the most original
and paradigm shifting physicists of the day,
when he received a prestigious scientific award
for his black hole theory which applies to all of creation.
I am very glad,
three years I've wanted to meet you.
Finally we get together in this lovely place here
and you recently just had, I think something that
was very powerful in your own career
by being acknowledged within the physics community.
Cause you were a bit of a rebel and renegade.
You discovered a lot of this on your own
without those books.
Right.
And so now to come into your fullness,
tell us a little bit about what happened recently
when you were honoured with an award over the
Schwarzschild proton paper.
Yeah, it was great, I just,
it was so unexpected because this is a
physics conference and Yales University had the
maths department and its every two years
and I was, you know, invited to present a paper
there this year and so since it was an invited paper
I was a little bit more pushy,
a little bit more open about the meaning of
what I wanted to say
and a little more radical, you know,
and so I was not, I actually was expecting
a little bit of back slash when I got there,
after you know submitting my paper
and so I was really surprised
in the middle of the conference,
the Director of the conference took me aside
and I thought "Oh, here we go.",
you know, he might ask me to retract my paper or something
and he told me, "I noticed that you were leaving,
"before the awards ceremony this year,
"this week and I would like you to stay"
and I thought, Why, he said,
" Well, you know, you won the best paper award in physics"
You must have almost fainted.
I almost fainted, it was,
I was in shock, I didn't know what to say
and so he was looking at me like, you know,
"OK, can you stay", you know
and I'm like, Oh yeah I will change my plans,
and it was, it was remarkable,
it tells you how much things are changing
because this is a very radical paper.
This is a very hopeful message.
It is. Its a paper that says that
every atom is a mini black hole,
that it has infinite density,
that it has infinite potential,
that everything has singularity at its centre
and the paper, in its first few pages,
elaborates and shows mathematically that
the vacuum energy, the structure of the vacuum itself,
interlinked or entangles all protons,
the proton being the nuclei of an atom,
that all the nuclei of an atom are entangled
because of the structure of the vacuum
that the structure, that the vacuum is not a
passive vacuum but a active vacuum
that has a role to play in the creation of the,
our material world but as well is the structure
that connects all things, so actually this is a
mathematical rendering of the concept,
everything is one, so that it actually is
mathematically proven.
This is huge that
you would be honoured in this way
because this really has turned a lot of other peoples
papers that were submitted upside down.
Why do you think this happened
and why do you think now?
Well especially considering, your project
is called the resonance project,
thats a big word right there.
Yeah
Why do you think this happened now?
Oh I think that the world of physics
and the world in general is transforming
and there is an opening that is occuring
and certainly in physics, you know,
there is a level of arrogance thats
slowly fading away, you know,
not so long ago, when I started bringing my work
to the physics community, some 15 to 20 years ago,
the tendency was to think "We've got the universe
"pretty well all figured and all we need is a few
"little things to work out and then we have it"
They just have to
connect a couple of little dots.
Right and so there was a lot of, you know,
arrogance in the way, you know,
physicists who are interacting with new ideas
and so on and so it was extremely difficult to be heard.
But since then a lot of failures in our theories
have come forward, a lot of experiments in laboratory
and data from cosmological instruments
and so on have shown us that there is
anomalies that we cannot explain with the standard model
and all sorts of things are coming up
and so, you know, certain level of failure of string theory
and so on and I think that its changed the world of physics
and that physicists and scientists in general
are returning to that, you know,
level of awe and that you know that
More of an open inquiry
that had been lost and corrupted.
Exactly
Thats fabulous.
Yeah and so they are much more willing
to look at new ideas and new theories
and I think this paper was so classical,
you know, its a peer review of some 10 or 11,
peer review is on the panel that looked at it
and I think that it was so classical,
its like 14 equation and eight pages
and it gets rid of the strong force
and many concepts of quantum theory
and it solves the atomic structure
in a classical way, its so beautiful mathematically
that I think it took them, you know,
on a magic carpet ride and they thought
they had to give the award to it.
I was very very honoured.
Well, on behalf of everybody else
on the planet, I'm thrilled that this kind of humility
is starting to come back because this is a time for inquiry
and that for you to be honoured is really kind of
the penultimate in that, in that understanding, you know.
Yeah, I'm really excited and I think its a,
it helps to get other physicists to look at it,
to get some credibility in the physics I'm writing
and to make people aware that
we are not living in a finite world that, you know,
the atomic structure itself has this infinite potential
within it that, you know, when people are talking
philosophically or spiritually about their
infinite nature and all this stuff,
it doesn't have to be outside the physical world,
that the actual physical world
is what they are talking about,
that, you know, philosophy and sprituality
are not the divorced from the atomic structure,
that the atomic structure is actually a manifestation
of this dynamic of creation that, you know,
we might call consciousness, spirituality and so on.
And this is interesting because
what your, the implications of these
mathematical formula that you very elegantly put forth
and are now being accepted has very deep
spiritual or consciousness oriented awareness
oriented implications.
Yeah its not so obvious by reading the paper directly
Right.
I do under a statement that all protons are
entangled that I make at the beginning
showing that the amount of energy
available in the vacuum structure inside the proton
equates the mass of the universe
and that all the mass of the universe is present
in each proton in the vacuum energy
showing that the vacuum connects all protons.
I did in that statement, its not so obvious
to see how this relates to consciousness
but if you take all of my papers together
and you understand the theory globally,
you know, holistically, you start to see
how that, you know, it starts to give a meaning
to the word consciousness because people use the word
consciousness all the time, you know like,
"Ah, the universe is all conscious,
"everything is consciousness",
but then there is not really any definition of consciousness
and I think that what this work kind of brings along
as well is that it starts to describe consciousness
as a fundamental dynamics of the forces of nature
and basically this paper I just published eliminates
some of the, two of the forces of quantum world
and so we are left with only two forces in the universe,
two classical forces, gravity and electromagnetism
and one is basically the vacuum energy moving
inwards towards the centre, gravitational pull
and the other one is the electromagnetic feild
or the vacuum structure moving away from centre
and so you have a radiated pulse
and the gravitational pulse and the two are feeding back
on each other and thats how the universe learns about itself
its because there is a fundamental feedback
in the structure of space and consciousness
is just that, its self awareness, its feedback
and so I think it starts to give us a
good foundation to actually have a quantitative
and you know analysis of the structure of consciousness
and how the universe learns about itself,
how itself organises and how, you know,
I mean the amazing, you know,
organisation and coordination that we see in our universe
that cannot be explained by mere, you know,
random function.
No and the whole notion of
creating order out of chaos there have to be
certain organising principles that create coherence
Thats right.
And so this is where most people ears
perk up a little bit, its how do you create coherence,
how do you create?
How do we create both collectively
and individually and this what you are talking about has,
it is the basis of the creation process.
Thats right, you know, its the basis of the understanding
of the dynamics of the creation process
and then the application of that into our life everyday
can have a very very deep meaning.
Lets start talking about that
because I think thats where all of us live,
we are seeing the world around us
not just the world of physics changing very rapidly,
a lot of people are being very unseated by it.
Those who are prepared are already becoming
coherent in their own lives and understanding
of whats coming up and how to deal with it.
Yeah
So lets talk about that,
off camera we were talking about the notion
of focus persistent desire and whatever kind of
plasmic effect that may have, however that goes back into
programming, coalescing, making coherent
Right.
An outcome and the principles
you were talking about and just go for it.
You can even start with synchronicity
as really a kind of a silly little word on one level.
Right, well you know, I think that synchronicity
is actually evidence of this self organising system
and you know, some people think of it as
some God or God organising creation,
some people think of it, you know,
as you know, spirit and many other things.
What I'm doing, I'm starting to actually pinpoint the
dynamics of that self organising agent
and it turns out that it seems to be the vacuum
itself that, you know the space between you and I,
the space inside the atom is not empty,
its full of all the information that radiated into it
and then its fed back to us as our experience of reality
and so better we become at you know,
focussing our intention in feeding the information to the
vacuum of our intention in a most focussed way
and clear way then easier it is for the vacuum
to feedback an experience that matches
closer and closer what we want
and I think that the level of synchronicity
increases you know and its noticeable
because it becomes easier and easier
for the vacuum to like feedback for the universe
to feedback what we desire.
Essentially manifestation
is what we are talking about.
Manifestation thats right but it is always
a balance between your internal interpretation
and what the universe is feeding you back.
Its always a little bit different
because whenever you feed information to the vacuum,
whenever you feed information to the universe,
then its modified by all the rest of people
that are feeding information to the universe
and its coordinated so that we all live in the same
consenhsious reality, you know,
people say, "You create your reality",
well if everybody created their own reality
nobody would meet.
Right.
It would be very lonely, you know,
everybody will be in their own reality by themselves
Right.
So there is a consensus, there is a relationship,
so that you can, you know, focus on what you want
and the universe is going to feed you back,
the vacuum is going to feed you back
something close to what you want
but that is coordinated with everybody else's intention
With the collective
And with the collective, right
Yes that makes total sense.
So theres a relationship, theres a dance
and I think that, you know, even in this paper
that I just published, which is a technical paper,
if you read between the lines you start to realise,
the atoms that are made of, which is billions
and billions of atoms were made out of hundred trillion cell
you know, each cell's made of billions of atoms
and so you can imagine like,
all these little mini black holes, I mean,
this is what this paper say,
that each one of these things are mini black holes,
teeny winne black holes that are spinning
at near the speed of light,
very very close to the speed of light
and that you know, it gives meaning as well
to the concept that we are light, you know,
and that the way into the vacuum,
the way into the capacity to influence deeper
and deeper and more accurately the structure of the vacuum
is to actually go inwards towards that singularity,
inwards towards that point of absolute stillness
were all spins cancels out at the centre of singulrity.
Explain that in a practical sense,
in the process of creation for example,
were say you have a focussed desire and now.
The tendency is to try to focus it outside yourself
but really whats necessary is to, you know,
use techniques of meditation or contemplation or so on
to actually go inside yourself towards the infinitely small,
you know, people say that I have a hard time visualising
infinity, well usually thats because they are trying to
visualise infinitely big but if they contain
the infinitely small then they have access
to the infinite, through the infinitely small
and so to turn the senses inwards
which happens to be what most of the masters
that have walked the earth have been trying to tell us
throughout the ages and to actually go towards singularity,
towards the infinite potential inside each one of the atoms
and then to have like a directed, you know,
information network, you know, to have access to the
information network and direct it in a way that
will fulfil, you know, our deepest desires,
I think becomes very very powerful.
So now we start to see physical route,
a physical way, a mechanical way to actually
have more and more influence on the vacuum
and transform our world to more and more of what we want.
So lets say we have gone in
through that process, we are mastering that with our
persistent focussed desire and we are taking it in
to the most infinite level inside our own being,
going inward, lets talk about the process from your model
and you can, for lay people obviously, as to what happens to
create what would almost be perceived as a step down process
through the layers or fields of density to create something
that has now become, you know, our physical reality,
part of our physical reality.
And I know you are talking perceptions as well as
reality so that whole thing, take off on it.
Well you know I call it vacuum engineering
and its a you know, you could apply it to
literally engineering devices in labratory
or you could apply it to you know,
an individual becoming more and more aware
of the exchange thats constantly occuring
between them and the vacuum, you know,
an atom is made out of 99.999999% space,
so when people say, "What are you talking about,
"about the vacuum", I'm telling them literally
but I'm talking about them, you know,
because you are 99.9999, so what you experience as yourself
is actually 0.00000001 of a percent of whats actually there.
Well its a strong illusion,
an holographic illusion.
That is absolutely and thats what I'm trying
to get people aware of is that the space
is actually what produces the material world
and so to become aware of that
and to become aware of the exchange thats
constantly occurring between you and
between what you call the material world
that you are made of and the space
and that everything all around you in your environment
you know, biological or not is constantly exchanging
to start to become aware of that world,
starts to put you in a position of being able to alter it.
Be able to modify it and to you know become,
what I call a vacuum engineering,
start to transform it in a way that can produce the
most positive effect in your life, you know,
including to discover, you know, what some people
may call your darma, you know, your mission,
you know, what you are here to do,
how to do it and so on, I mean,
lots of inspiration, lots of information can come from that
because you are feeding the vacuum but as well
the vacuum is feeding you back,
so if you become more aware of it,
its like all of a sudden the little voice is not so little
anymore, you are hearing clearer and clearer and clearer
you know, the information network thats available to you
that before might have passed you by.
And if you weren't so clear,
you might not be magnetising such clear information
back, I mean this clarity is really a key point isn't it?
Thats right and to get that clarity,
I think that the best tool is to spend a few
minutes everyday going inwards and
like you said, you know, going through the levels of
densities, deeper and deeper towards singularity.
I like to think of it as, even like mechanically,
physically, you know, I think of it like if you can
visualise yourself as all the cells in your body,
which is already a very, you know,
to become aware of that level is very good.
I generally say, now you've connected with the
biological entity of our planet, the planetary field.
And then, you know, if you go deeper
and you start to connect with all the atoms
that makes all of the cells of your body,
now you've connected with the solar system field,
you know because all the atoms, you know,
all the material we see in our world actually
came out of the sun and then, you know,
and then I say if you go deeper and you connect with
the nuclei of the atom, you know, like the protons,
now you've connected with the morphogenic field
of the whole galaxy and thats what I call becoming
the galactic being, you know, to actually start to
become and be the awareness of the galaxy,
to realise that you are floating inside a galaxy
and you can choose to visualize yourself to
experience the world from a galactic perspective
and when you look at it from a galactic perspective,
all of a sudden its very easy to see the earth as one,
its very easy to blur the lines between, you know,
the countries, between the differences that you see
in personalities or in skin colours and so on,
that all kind of goes away when you look at the earth
from a galactic perspective.
Take that conversely in what happens
in a very large percentage of lives of people on the planet,
including a lot of people watching this right now,
which is the opposite, magnetising reality is to them,
that do not reflect what they desire out of
fear, trauma, programming, whatever you want to call it.
Thats right, we all do a certain amount of that
and you know, its part, I mean, its remarkable
actually considering the world we live in,
that we are able to actually survive the experience,
you know, when you look at, you know,
the first moments of birth on this planet,
typically some serious trauma happens within the first
10 minutes, I mean you know, this bright light,
you are pulled out of your mother,
your umbilical cord is cut while still pulsing,
you know, you are pulled away from your mother,
you know, your head hung by your feet,
I mean acid is put in your eyes,
tubes are put up your nose, I mean,
by then you have already serious trauma
that has been implemented and then it goes on
you know and I think that so we all have
a certain amount of that programming thats
running in the background, that constantly self sabotages.
Much of it collective programming but with
our own flavours, with our own individuated programming.
Thats right and you know in our the way our
society is built, the technology we use is so precarious
and so on that you know, our society is set up to
continue the trauma, I mean you know, you are having
a great day, you had a beautiful breakfast with your family
and so on, you get in your car, next thing you know
you are on the six lane highway, you know,
everybody cutting you off and then you get into
you know, traffic and I mean and remaining in that
sense of the connectivity with the universe and,
nothing in our society encourages that,
or very little so its a very big effort, you know,
for a person to actually take the time everyday,
to find that singularity, to find that point of stillness
at the centre of their existence, which they can do in a
few minutes, just by concentrated their energy towards
the centre of their existence and to,
throughout the day keep a log of how far they have gone
from that point of stillness, into the spin,
you can compare it to the centre of a hurricane,
which is in that stillness right
and the spin you know, which is extreme right at the edge
of that stillness and
We spent most of our time at the extreme edge.
Thats right, in that spin and
but if we take the time every morning to like
connect with the stillness then at least we know
how to get back to it.
Yes.
So if we experience this spin throughout our day,
then we can go,"Oh, I'm spinning,
"let me take a minute", you know,
Excuse me, during the board meeting,
"Excuse me I got to the washroom"
and just like go back to that point of singularity,
go back to that point of infinite potential,
go back to that connection of the universe,
all of the universe, every atom,
all of the energy of the universe thats constantly
supporting you and from that point,
then again we are back into control into centre
and then we can move to our day again.
But if there is no monitoring of where we are
relative to that centre, if we don't know where that
centre is, there is no gauge for us to know
how far we are in the spin.
Very true
Yeah
Well lets take that to the
opposite extreme with individuals who have chosen to
make their life the understanding of that stillness inside
and you can find many of the great masters in India,
who are in caves and who have brought their rice
and have essentially a lack of materiality around them,
on the most, the commonly understood level.
How do you see that dense?
This is just a personal, your personal opinion.
How do you see that dense of living in that
but not bouncing out to the other extremes
which often requires a quieting of any and all desire,
where do you see the role of desire?
You see what I am saying?
Yeah
From going to no desire
in this still experience of a bowl of rice a day
and quietude and darkness and contemplatiion
to living the we are living in these
wild arrays of the creative process.
I think that it maybe necessary for individuals to
take the time at one point in their life to
quiet down and to get rid of all the extraneous stuff
in their life so that they can find that stillness,
if thats necessary but I think that
any which way to the extreme, you know,
is an imbalance and that was the greatest
you know, the greatest discovery of the Buddha,
which was walking the middle path,
Exactly
The highest path the most erect path
to enlightenment to assertion to
the deepening of our existence is to actually be
in balance between, you know, the material world
and the spiritual world and that any imbalance
in either way can lead to disaster
and so that you know, it is easy to be always at centre
if you are in a cave in some mountain
and you don't have cell phones, you don't have
No wives or children.
No wives, no children, you know,
nobody to argue with you first thing in the morning,
you know, all this is, you know,
so you eliminate all that then its easier
and that might be necessary for you to find it first
but then its important to actually be able to go back
into the world and interact with the world
and you see how well you can maintain that relationship
and you know and I think thats really now whats necessary
is the path of the masters today have to do both
and I think we are all walking into our mastery
in that sense, you know, its no longer
appropriate for the spiritual people to
go in their cave and say,
"We don't need the material world"
and its no longer appropriate for the physicists
to go into their laboratories and say
"We don't need the spiritual world"
that the two come together and eventually
its found that they are not separate things,
they are the same thing, that the material world
is as you know the spiritual world
and the spiritual world is the material world,
its never the egg or the chicken, its always both.
To dove deeper into Nassim's theory
you can purchase his DVD set through his site
theresonanceproject.org, meanwhile next month
we will talk more with Nassim regarding ancient technologies
and how the clues left behind are impacting
our evolution in science today.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(fading music)